Added **experimental** WebRTC transport scaffolding (``libp2p.transport.webrtc``)
per the libp2p WebRTC and WebRTC Direct specs.  Enabled via the optional
``libp2p[webrtc]`` extra (``aiortc``) and the ``enable_webrtc`` opt-in.

This is a v1 **node-to-node** foundation, not a production-ready WebRTC stack.

**What works (node-to-node):**

- ``WebRTCDirectTransport`` (``/webrtc-direct``) and ``WebRTCPrivateTransport``
  (``/webrtc`` via Circuit Relay v2).
- Data-channel stream framing with uvarint length-prefixed protobuf and the
  FIN / FIN_ACK / STOP_SENDING / RESET state machine.
- In-band data channels for application streams; the Noise channel (id=0)
  remains negotiated per spec.
- Signaling with bilateral ``ICE_DONE`` (libp2p/specs#585 fix).
- Noise XX prologue binding the handshake to the DTLS certificate fingerprints.
- SDP builder with an isolated ``_apply_ice_credentials()`` seam for
  libp2p/specs#672.
- ECDSA P-256 certificate generation with multihash / multibase fingerprint
  encoding; DTLS cert pinned to ``RTCPeerConnection`` via the aiortc-internal
  private slot so the advertised ``/certhash/`` matches the actual handshake.
- A clean trio ↔ asyncio bridge for ``aiortc``.

**Out of scope for this PR (follow-ups):**

- **Browser interop is explicitly NOT supported.**  v1 SDP munging on the
  browser side is being phased out by Chrome's ``WebRTC-NoSdpMangleUfrag``
  field trial; browser dial will land on v2 (libp2p/specs#715).
- Interop with go-libp2p / js-libp2p WebRTC Direct dialers.  Their listener
  reconstructs the offer from the inbound STUN ``USERNAME``; our listener
  currently uses an HTTP ``POST /sdp`` exchange, which is documented as a
  py-to-py temporary harness.
- Private ``/webrtc`` dial — only the listener / signaling skeleton lands here.
- Full inbound handler wiring (Noise + handler invocation) on the
  ``WebRTCDirectListener`` is pending the aiortc STUN ``USERNAME`` exposure
  spike (sub-issue of #546).

Refs #546.
