Implemented Gossipsub v1.1 peer scoring and signed peer records functionality.

This major update brings py-libp2p into compliance with the Gossipsub v1.1 specification,
adding comprehensive peer scoring mechanisms and signed peer record validation for peer exchange (PX).

**Key Features Added:**

* **Peer Scoring System**: New `PeerScorer` class implementing weighted-decayed counters
  with P1-P4 topic-scoped metrics (time in mesh, first deliveries, mesh deliveries, invalid messages)
  and P5 global behavior penalty scoring.

* **Score-Based Gates**: Implemented publish acceptance, gossip emission, PX acceptance,
  and graylisting thresholds to control peer behavior based on their scores.

* **Signed Peer Records**: Enhanced peer exchange (PX) to validate and store signed peer
  records from PRUNE messages, ensuring peer ID matches and updating peerstore accordingly.

* **Opportunistic Grafting**: Added mesh management hooks that enable opportunistic
  grafting based on median mesh scores to improve network topology.

* **Protocol Version Detection**: Added `supports_scoring()` method to detect Gossipsub v1.1
  capabilities and enable scoring features only for compatible peers.

* **Observability**: Comprehensive score statistics via `get_score_stats()` and
  `get_all_peer_scores()` methods for monitoring and debugging peer behavior.

* **Heartbeat-Driven Decay**: Automatic score decay during heartbeat intervals to
  ensure recent behavior is weighted more heavily than historical data.

The implementation maintains backward compatibility while providing production-ready
scoring parameters with conservative defaults. All existing APIs continue to work
unchanged, with scoring features activated automatically for Gossipsub v1.1 peers.

This addresses issue #871 and brings py-libp2p in line with other libp2p implementations
for improved network resilience and attack resistance.
